# Test Procedure Using TM4J

Test Management for JIRA Cloud

* Platform for creating, managing, executing, recording and monitoring tests and testing.
* Standalone (e.g. regression and smoke tests),
* Or tests linked to issues.
* Issues raised can be linked to existing smoke / regression tests.
* Issues raised in Jira will have a test case created.
* Two options for writing tests.
  * Step-by-step.
  * Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) - Gherkin.
* Reproduction steps written in Jira issue.

## Process

1. Client reports bug on Zendesk.
1. Support verify issue.
1. Support raise issue in Jira with reproduction steps in Gherkin.
1. Scrum Master allocates to dev.
1. Testers create test script.
1. Testers can assign regression and smoke tests if fixes may affect functionality.
1. Tests added to test cycle.
1. Devs work on issue.
    * Note any alterations needed.
1. Testers review any changes.
1. Test is executed and recorded on Jira.
    * If successful, issue is moved to *Release Notes* stage.
    * If test fails, put back to *To Do*.

## Design changes

* Spec documents will be reviews to create testing requirements.

## Gherkin

* Behavioural language designed to help write concrete requirements.
* Four key command words supported by Jira:
  * **Given** - Initial context.
  * **When** - Action.
  * **Then** - Expected outcome.
  * **And** - Allows addition of more steps.

## Jira boards

* Tasks in testing get coloured:
  * Blue - has a test script.
  * Red - re-fix.

## Test cases

1. Open Jira issue.
1. Select *Create New Test Case*.
    * Name as task with appended:
      * *B* - bug,
      * *NF* - new feature,
      * *I* - improvement.
    * Add objective
    * Add any preconditions.
    * Add to the folder for that sprint.
    * Set *Status* to *Draft* - a manager will approve.
    * Set *Priority* to *Normal*.
    * Add an expected amount of time.
1. Under *Test Script* tab, switch to Gherkin.
1. In Jira issue, expand test
    * Select add test to test cycle.  Need to find test.

## Test player

* In the test player, press play to start the test.
* Work through the test steps
* Record the results:
  * Pass,
  * Failed,
  * Blocked.
* Automatically stops the clock when a result is selected.
